[Music]
no it's not oh because the the anyway
some of the lettering is different from
what I made but yeah it's Linux my
apologies to everybody oh we cannot help
that that's pity because uh well we'll
see I'll start talking
anyway but that's something for next
time that you better use the same
computer as the person who sends you it
but no problem okay I'll start all over
I'm going to talk to you about safe uh
tapering of medication with tapering
strips share decision making
and shared understanding now you have to
click yes this is the problem for which
we want to find a solution I'll read it
again in the Netherlands more than 3
million people use medications such as
anti-depressant antipsychotics bodas
Pines opioid painkillers often for an
extended period worldwide this will
likely be hundreds of millions of
people when it is not possible you go to
quickly when it is not possible to
discontinue this medication responsibly
because the dose has to be reduced too
quickly and in too large steps problems
can
arise these problems can range from
minor to very severe including complete
destabilization psychotic episodes
suicidality and even
suicides and this not only affects the
persons involved but also their loved
ones Health Care Providers such as
general practitioners and
Psychiatry and society as a whole and
because so many people are using these
medications this problem affects us all
and it's a Pity can you make it small
well
okay and this is my mission our mission
I might say the next
one yeah to make responsible and
personalized tapering of psychotropic
and other medication practically
possible based on share decision making
and proper self-
monitoring I myself and Jim VOS involved
in the development of and Research into
the use of tapering medication but not
in producing it or providing it to
patients we do not receive any
reimbursement or income from the
provision of tapering
medication but the US Research Center uh
at UMC UT has benefited from
a personal grants of uh the Reno
Pharmacy I'm trying to click something
away here on my screen but it doesn't
work my name is Peter grro I'm not a
medical doctor I studied chemistry
biochemistry molecular
biology and for many years I did
fundamental genetic research and I got a
PhD in
1989 and I've got lived experienced with
depression with suicidal
thoughts and as a result of such
depression in 2004 I started using
anti-depressants and I discovered that I
was suffering from withdrawal after
forgetting one single daily
dose and in 2014 I did an experiment
tapering my
medication
hyperbolically and slowly
stepwise using uh very intensive
um monitor daily self monitor in
yeso and I got a bachelor in uh
psychology in 2012 for a study which I
started when I was in a period of
unemployment and I wrote about my
depression and if you want you can read
it here are the
Publications
next these are the problems I see with
prescribing and tapering first of all
there are no good
guidelines and the recommended dosages
are problematic because it's basically
one size fits all and you can see this
in this figure a few dosages for
tapering are not enough we generally
have only a few dosages for prescription
drugs while what we need is what we need
with shoes and with
clothing so what we need for safe
tapering is basically all the dosages uh
that we need for a gradual taper and to
make this possible very low dosages are
required problem is far pharmaceutical
companies did not supply them and
Psychiatry did not ask for it next
slide and an important thing to remember
is that guidelines for withdrawal are
based on group research they do not
account for heterogeneity well
enough and that's important because we
know large inter individual differences
between patients exist if we would
know if we could measure withdrawal risk
uh for individual persons reliably we
would probably come up with such a graph
where we can see that some people can
have low risk of having withdrawal and
some people have high risk and many
people are probably somewhere in the
middle
and this creates a big question the next
slide for doctors who want to help
patient patient and for the patients
itself because the question of course is
if you want to taper gradually how
gradually do you want to
taper are you one of these patients uh
who can taper
fast are you
intermediate or are you somebody who has
to taper very
slow this is very hard to predict this
is on the next
slide because sub susceptibility for
withdrawal for an individual patient
it's almost impossible to predict
reliably if and when withdrawal will
occur how bad withdrawal complaints will
be and how long they will last it's very
difficult and for responsible tapering
it is very important that it can be
individualized that it is flexibly
adjustable
and what I find very important that we
can use proper self monitoring and shed
decision is
important and what often happens in
clinical practice is that a doctor and a
patient both know not
precisely what the best course of action
will be so there are choices
uncertainties and in my view if this is
the case decision is
important but if different choices can
equally work well we don't know this I
think it should be the patient who
decides
this yes next slide and this is
something that many patients have
understood at an early stage earlier
than many professionals did but you see
in this slide
is
the this comes out of study out of
2021 in which an inventory was made of a
number of Facebook group websites made
by persons with lived experience with a
goal to help each other and it's amazing
how much knowledge can be found on these
websites so it's patient uh developed
knowledge next
slide we've described the origin and the
history of tapering medication in this
paper and I want to stress that uh the
next one or the next yes that tapering
medication we now have in the
Netherlands was made at a request of
patients we were approaching uh
approaching uh Pharmacists and we found
Paul haror with a question will you do
are you able to do what pharmaceutical
companies have not done and what
Psychiatry had not asked for help us to
make this
medication and that was in
2013 now next question next uh
slid this is how tapering strips work
it's basically a very simple uh way to
solve a problem and the idea for this
was put forward by a patient who could
not come off his benzo aines for number
of years and it was put forward in
2004 and what you see here is the no no
no sorry the way it works is just like
with the coins in our wallet when we
want to pay a certain amount of money if
you have coins of a number of different
denominations you can make every amount
of money with a minimum number of uh
coins and the same is true if you want
to make medication at all sort of
different
dosages and what you need is a way to
package this and that's why we call them
strips because backer strips were
already in existence so that's how we
did it
next
and this I'm going to read out and what
I want to make clear is
that in the discussion between patients
or between a doctor and a patient I
think it's important if we have a way to
explain tapering in the simplest way
possible so without going into detail
about pharmacokinetics or pharmaco
Dynamics or about receptors or about
biochemistry or whatever so this is our
way to try to explain tapering as simple
as
possible so what I would tell somebody
if he wanted to tap safely is the
following the responsible way to taper
off medication is to do so in a greater
number of small steps with each step
getting smaller as the dosage decreases
next because this will allow your body
to adapt to the progressively lower dose
after each
step and with ample time for adjustment
you are less likely to experience
symptoms while you are tapering or
hopefully no symptoms at
all for if any symptoms arise during
tapering they will probably occur less
rapidly and are less likely to become
severe
immediately and this is important
because this makes it easier both for
yourself if you are tapering and for
your Healthcare provider to address
these symptoms in a timely manner such
as by remaining at the same dosage for a
while before continuing the taper more
slowly and what's important to always
discuss is that the possible outcome of
tapering May of course be
that there comes a decision to continue
using the medication possibly at a lower
dose perhaps not
but it's clear that not everybody uh
will probably be able to come off
medication but the important thing
that's the last one is that opting for
such a gradual and responsible approach
to taper makes it easier to explore
whether tapering is feasible for a
patient because patients often want to
come with medications and they will try
it anyway even if a doctor says you
cannot do it and this allows you a way
to do it
jointly
okay now the Practical question how do
you choose a tapering schedule when you
and your doctor don't know if and how
much you are at risk for
withdrawal now we use this method uh
which is so nicely set out by uh Mark
Horowitz and David Taylor in
2019 this gradual hyperbolic taper which
looks like if you're going down a
slide and what you do well it's possible
to ask a personal advice if you want and
then you are told this is a schedule
that might well work for you we're not
sure but this you can do and then if you
use the tapering strips then it goes
like this you have one strip for the
first uh stage of the tapering then
follows the next
one can I can the next one come and then
a third one and a fourth one in this
example and since all the tapering
strips made we have chosen for a period
of four weeks so you can choose if you
want to taper in four weeks eight weeks
12 weeks and so
on now of course the problem if you make
such a choice you're not
sure if this taper will be good enough
for you it may be too fast so what
happens if that occurs well that you can
you see here you start tapering with the
first strip and as long as everything
goes well you can probably just go on
tapering and if everything works as
plant you can taper without problems but
if if you start getting symptoms here
then what you should do and that's on
the next
one is do not go on with your taper
because common practi is if people do
that almost invariably your complaints
will get
worse so it's not a very uh sensible
thing to say like oh but I will get
through these complaints I will just go
on you better not do this
stabilize first and then if that works
well you can decide to slow down but of
course you can also make another
decision that's a discussion you have to
have with your doctor that's something
you have to think about
yourself okay next
one the next one is something we have
given uh a lot of thoughts and that's
the importance of self-monitoring we
wanted to have something for patients
which they could do yeah the next one
can
come which they could do themselves
easily and we did not want to make uh
complicated questionnaires where you ask
all sort of questions do you have this
kind of symptoms or this kind of
symptoms because the simpler you make
such uh a tool the bigger the chance
that people will actually use it so what
we ask people to do
is in this table if you go through it
you see uh the number of the days it
goes from 28 to one the days of the week
and you see the dose of the
medication and we ask people to fill in
a score of one to7 which is the score of
the complaints people experience when
they are tapering it's a subjective
score and and so it can mean different
things for different patients but the
important thing is that if patients do
it every day you can see if things are
changing while you are tapering because
that's relevant also people can write
down which complaints are you having and
I want to point you at two interesting
things here and this is actually the
first uh
self-monitoring form we ever got back
that was this uh woman in this case and
she was taper stabilizing
dium because apparently she had a lot of
complaints while was she was trying to
come off
diom because he is filling in a 666 544
and then you see it it gradually goes
down but what I found interesting when I
saw it was this remark performing with
with the choir went well because this is
not a
symptom I mean this is something this
women
experienced and which my take is was
important to her probably performing
with the choir went less well before she
started doing this so it was informative
for her and it's probably also
informative for her physician and that's
what we want
second thing is next one
please that he writes down therefore
using mere Z Quil more
quum why is this
important because we says something
about the dose change of an other
prescription drug and this is something
which happens quite a lot in Daily
clinical practice people who are
tapering not rarely are also using other
medications and it's important to know
what
happens and this also makes the whole
tapering process more complicated but
this way you learn something from it
both the patients but
also uh the GP or the psychiatrist who
helps this patient and finally at the
bottom no please go
back yes this one what is writes down is
that sleep has successfully recovered
during this stabilization during this 28
days he was feeling better while she
stayed on the same dose this is very
relevant information and important for
her and then she says I will now
continue the taper so it's her
decision and I think it's a joint
decision with the doctor which is
helpful to get through this process next
please
this is the second example we got in and
this is somebody who is tapering an
anti-depressant clomipramine in this
case from 75 to 50 milligrams you see
the dosage is here and you see the score
is 1 one11 one11 except for three days
so what happens with this person is that
he or she is
tapering and is experiencing no problems
at all so what this
tells and that's also the conclusion of
the patient it's going fine so far so I
can just go on tapering and then we hope
that this will go on to the very end
next one oh yeah this one so this is
what our goal was make a form as simple
as possible easy to fill
out and because we can note the
changes it tells us something how and
when symptoms change as the dose
changes so this is informative for both
the patient and for the the doctor and
for perhaps other persons are
involved and we have tried to come up
with some what we call Universal rules
for responsible tapering well the first
one is very clear if you change your
dose do it
gradually and this is not important I
think for tapering but also for starting
medication I mean rapid abrupt changes
of medication can be a source of problem
so we must be aware of that the second
thing is shared decision making patients
have to be
involved the third one I think is daily
self-monitoring and the fourth one is
take the time that is needed for a taper
I mean if you go too fast and you get
problems you gain
nothing finally If you experience
complaints during your tapering do not
continue tapering when things start
getting
worse do discuss this with your doctor
to determine whether and how to adjust
the tapering schedule and when the
doctor is not readily available you have
to think about it yourself and perhaps
take a decision about what you are going
to do but not simply go on with the
tapering because often people regret
this when they do
this
next now an important question of course
is do tapering strips help because by
now in the Netherlands more than 10,000
I think it's 12 or 13,000 people have
been prescribed tapering strips we have
been able to ask these people how things
were going and thus far we've done four
stud studes with a total of now more
than
participants I will not discuss this uh
studies uh in detail I will only give
you the results that's on the next
slides oh before I uh give the results I
want to say something about the patients
who participate in this uh in these
studies first of all many of them were
longtime users secondly many had tried
to come off medications
before often several times and when they
did this on average they suffered
severely from
withdrawal and there were also
especially in the beginning many
patients who had to inform their doctors
about the availability of tapering
strips instead of the other way around I
think currently in the Netherlands
things have changed and a lot of
patients are told by their doctors oh I
have something for
you and
finally we gave no additional guidance
except for the information that we
provided with the tapering strips so
there was no additional support
whatsoever
and what we are seeing here and this is
important to realize this is very
different from what happens in clinical
trials because in clinical trials
patients are often not representative of
patients from daily clinical practice
because next
one there's exclusion of patients who do
not have certain diagnosis or who also
use other medications or have Suicidal
Thoughts etc
etc and that was not the case in our
studies now what are the main
results first of all in all studies thus
far about about 70% of the people who
used the tapering strips were able to
taper
completely and this was also true for
patients who had tried to come off their
tapering strips before and that was more
than 60% of the patients in our studies
had tried
this secondly we were able to measure
because tapering strips have been uh in
use starting from 2013 to ask people who
had tapered one to five years
ago and of them 70% roughly 70% were
still of the medication they had tapered
using tapering
strips which leads us to
concludes that we think that an as yet
unknown but probably significant number
of patients appear to be able to come
off psychiatric drugs like anti presence
even after years of use and after
several previous failed attempts to
quit there one important
provision to be able to do this that
doctors will be able to prescribe
personalized and easily adaptable
tapering schedules based on share
decision making and proper
self-monitoring and to be clear whether
this is done using the tapering sck we
have developed or by other means by
using liquid medication or whatever
other methods that's not relevant
here and important to note about the
availability of tapering
medications they are available in the
Netherlands for anti-depressant
antipsychotics tranquilizers opioid
energetics antiepileptics and some other
medications and we also have developed
switch stps to help people make a switch
from for instance one antidepressant to
another which is a common clinical
practice and in general tapering
medication is also available for
patients outsides the Netherlands I can
see it on my screen but if you go to the
website ww tapering strip.com
you can uh find the information
there now the next thing I'm going talk
about is
Alternatives
yes it's important to know that all over
the world great work is being being done
by persons with lift experience to help
each other I noted this before and here
you see an example this is from the
inner Compass the withdrawal
project and it's amazing they have
really um detailed guidelines
on how to kind beads making a liquid
mixture using a digital scale that give
you information about which scale you
use and I found information there which
I about s that I was Tau when I was a
first year chemical student so they do
really great work and they help a lot of
people uh let me see where am
I and but I have three ethical questions
with which I will end my talk before we
go through the discussion first one is
this and we asked this question in the
pharmaceutical journal in a short reply
we uh wrote some time
ago is it fair to burden patient with
responsibilities typically handled by
trained and certified
professional such as pharmacists who
have the expertise and equipment to
adjust dosages when
necessary I'm not going to give you the
answer you have to think about this
yourself next
one oh no no no please don't
move this is a table we uh made in which
we compared tablets and
liquids and when we were making the
tapering strips we have also been
thinking about other Alternatives and
this is our
interpretation of the differences
between these two uh solutions for
responsible tapering and you could make
similar tables for other methods but we
just compare these two because there
it's great
demand uh a lot of people ask for
liquids
and what we've done here is if we think
that there's an advantage of using uh
tablets over uh liquids we've indicated
a plus and if we think there's a
disadvantage we have not noted the
minus probably we are biased but we have
set out a number of
things
and one of the few things we say that is
comparable that is flexibility but
there's a lot of issues sensitivity for
temperature shelf
life
um scientifically proven I think we have
provided evidence for the use of these
tablets and as far as liquid SC I
haven't seen
it uh then there are production
costs that's something that it's very
easy to receive uh tapering medication
because it comes in an envelope that
just comes into your mailbox so you
don't need bottles then there is the
logistics and for a patient there's also
a matter of
convenience with the tapering strips you
just have to take your daily medication
and that's it you don't have
to is there somebody making
noise
out
[Music]
okay
um
yeah out yeah oh yeah
sorry one one back
please one back I was not ready
yet because there are also the
convenience of the instructions you've
seen the instructions on inner
Compass which is all very nice but it's
asking a lot from patients to do this
for a period of months or perhaps more
than a year every single day with every
single day a possibility to make
errors when uh liquids come in bottles
they can break uh and so these are a
number of things that is what we see
next one
my ethical question two my second
ethical question is that generally
patients are allowed to continue using
prescription drugs like anti-depressant
for years or even a lifetime also when
they don't need them
anymore but are unable to stop due to
withdrawal complaints and difficulties
caused by
it
let me see is this correct one yeah and
when patients wants to be able to taper
safely and
responsibly using tapering
strips or prescription drugs in liquid
form or they need a weighing scale or
pill cutters or any other
means currently they have to arrange for
this themselves and they have to pay for
these tools themselves in general now my
question is
and you can give the answer for yourself
is this
fair and now we go to my last ethical
question and this is uh a New York Times
article from a year ago and what you see
is that Mercedes-Benz had to recall
nearly 1 million Vehicles because there
were brake
issues so what we see is that the
manufacturers of cars with
malfunctioning brakes had to recall a
million cars and had to recover all the
damages caused by these faulty braks
next
one and we consider this a normal thing
to do now next one but we do not demand
the same from pharmaceutical companies
that have introduced prescription drugs
with faulty breaks next one
please while pharmaceutical companies
have been aware of withdraw issues for
decades without being compelled to
address these problems next
one and if I go a little bit further in
the case of opioid painkillers the
secular family knowingly exacerbated
withdrawal
Problems by producing oxycodone tablets
with an extra high dosage making it even
more difficult for people to quit or to
maximize profits
next and this we know has resulted in
over half a million deaths in the past
years pharmaceutical companies involved
were assisted by Consulting forms such
as McKenzie which recently settled the
case in the US for $230 million about
these issues in addition to a previous
settlement $600 million and here is my
question about this
given all these things is it fair to let
patients pay for the damage again this
is a question you should answer for
yourself and then my
final
slides this sort of wraps it up just
take a look of it uh and
then the thing that's beneath it next
one that's my question what I see is a
barrier of Injustice this and that is
that we make patient pay to be able to
taper
safely and this is uh what I wanted to
tell
you
so if there are any questions
uh we can
discuss CHR thank you so much Peter I
give entrance to whoever wants to to
question no
questions if there is none I would like
to know have you been involved at least
cooperating with the rather
project that was recently publish in
landet by
Dr Mon no we were not involved in
that Peter I have a question do you hear
me yes I can hear you okay how do we
find um patient um who was um um had a
damage by this treatment um to go to a
court is a inse securance for rights for
for law cases to go to the court until
the European Court how do we find such a
person with
um I do not know that you know um who
has not to pay personally for all the
costs when he goes to law how could you
find such a person I understand your
question and my answer would be go
search for it but it may be difficult
because it difficult for an individual
patient
to uh go into such a trajectory because
it's going to be long it's going to be
difficult and you have to find uh the
legal assistance to make this possible
and that's allog together not
easy so uh if I could tell you more I
would but this is my take
uh
so anybody
else
no I got a question that's fine so on
average uh if the
person if the people in Netherlands were
taking depression pills for more than
two years on average how many months or
years did they uh did it take them to
get to their
zero that's that that's very different
from Patient to Patient I mean as I said
some people can top stop rapidly even
from uh a medicine like Fen Vine there
are people and I have spoken to them and
they said I stop and for two weeks I
have very heavy dreams and then I'm fine
I think these individuals are rare but
they exist at The Other Extreme are
patients who go very very slowly and
even if they come to the end it may be
difficult and I can use myself as an
example I mean 10 years ago I tapered my
Fen vaccine in a period of eight weeks I
did it gradually stepwise the paper is
published and I have talked about it a
lot
and at that time we thought that 8 weeks
was quite a long
time because everybody tapered much
faster and the way I tapered went fine
for me I mean I was aware while I was
tapering that something was happening
but because I expected that something
was happening if I felt a little bit
light in my head I did not really
experience this as a big
problem in fact I expected it things
went well and then after eight weeks I
thought well I've done
it but within I guess about two
weeks I started to having complaints
mental complaints I started worrying
again
and this didn't go away and this was
nasty so I I don't know precisely how
long but after a few months I decided
I'm not going to take this because
because I'm afraid things will get
worse and uh while my father uh he made
an end to his whole to his own life more
than 40 years ago and I was sure I did
not want to do
that but I could not exclude that if I
started feeling worse and worse
so I thought about and said okay I'll go
back to the ven vaccine I don't know if
I suffer from withdraw all I don't know
if I have a relapse but I will go back
and I had always used 150 milligrams so
I said I will do the same as when I
started it go from 0 to 37 and a half
wait one or two weeks and then go to 75
and then again Waits and then go to
150 but when I got at
75 I noticed that I was feeling so much
better that I said wait before I go
higher let's stay on this dose so for 10
years I've been using 75
milligrams of fena vacine and I was
fine now this year with the knowledge I
now have and with the tapering stps
available which were not available then
I said I going to do a second attempt
but this time I will do it slower and I
will use the tapering strips
now in
2012 or 13 I don't know precisely I
tapered in eight weeks from uh 150
millgram to
zero this time I tapered from 75 to Zer
in 20 weeks so I taped five times as
slow and the big difference with my
previous taper that was that I did not
notice any complaints during the whole
five month periods what was happening I
had these forms I had developed myself
these self monitoring forms and day
after day I forgot to fill them
in because and if I had to fill them in
I could just fill in one one one one one
because I was fine and of course my big
question was after I taped completely
and I expected that this would work well
because it worked well the previous time
what will happen next now it's about
five months ago I think I stopped and
I've been fine so the fact that I
tapered five times as slow as uh 10
years ago for me made huge
difference but how this is for other
persons that depends in the research
we've done we have
uh analyzed about 1800s of these
self-monitoring forms we find patients
who just like I did fill in one one one
one one one one over the whole
trajectory we also find patients who go
much slower and still have a lot of
problems and we also know that some
patients who can taper safely can get
complaints back after they have stopped
successfully sometimes quite a while
after and we still don't know what
causes this so I cannot give you a clear
answer what I can say is that it matters
if you tap it
gradually but we still have to learn a
lot so I hope that's an an answer that's
clear for you uh thank you I can give an
answer
okay on the side tapering strip you can
find a form to ask
for
advice and then we give you an advice
for the tapering trajectory for the P
patient Bas on the information we ask
for and we are keeping track on this
information to find out how well these
advice works for the
people currently
yes so in language in which language can
people
ask sorry in which language can people
ask which language in a number of
different languages because
Spanish
Portuguese English
German
Dutch
French
thanks so Mr Leman you can read it
also you already knew some of these
things
anyway when you are here can you tell me
are there any orders of German people or
people from Switzerland or
Austria
Paul I cannot tell this uh Paul can Paul
what what's the
question the question is do you receive
orders for T strips from Germany
austrial whe whe whether you receive
requests from people to send tapering
strips to for instance Germany or
Austria
or
your screen seems to be
frozen I don't know if perhaps we can go
to another question and wait to uh until
Paul Comes live
again my understanding is that these
requests come in and that Paul handles
them and also I get emails sometimes
from very different countries from
people who I answer
so I saw another question from
Beatrice please
talk yes H many thanks for your talk pet
I will try to express myself in English
if there's some problem I will go to
sish um somebody has to translate my
Spanish is not good enough we will get
there okay let's try in English um I was
I have some
curiosity about why you choose to speak
about shared decision making and not uh
maybe supported decision
making like because on your talk you
were like saying that the last word was
from the person who was doing the T and
the patient no and
um this is related I will finish so
because is related with another
thing
um I think also that all your ethical
questions
um to me were um signaling that the need
ER for a um some support on on tapering
H being recognized has a right has a
right that you have H to get some
support to to to make a process of
reduction or withdrawal of
a psychoactive drugs uh that you have
been um prescribed sometimes maybe uh
you could be um in in a process of foret
uh medication or so I was thinking if in
Netherlands it is recognized has a right
if you find in the way of that to be
recognized has a right has a civil right
but also has a has a human right like er
H to have that support if you want to do
that
process um and I think working a lot
with the convention on the rights of
persons with disabilities and this is
why I'm I'm asking why not supported
decision
making ER and and share
it
uh I don't know if I explain myself
properly I I I will sort of try to give
back what I understand from your
question to begin
with uh I don't know precisely what the
difference is between supported decision
making and shared decision making so I
don't know if it's very useful to uh
start elaborating on that my point was
with this point like if there are
certain uh moments of un certainties
what I meant
was very concrete if somebody wants to
tap a vena
vaccine and if they would ask Paul an
advice and then he looks at how many
years have people use this medication
which medications they are using he can
say like you go from 75 to
zero it could be uh a good thing for you
to do this in say four months or
whatever then the advice he is giving is
not an advice of which he can tell 100%
sure that this will be good enough for
this patients perhaps this patient can
and the thing is the patient and the
doctor take this advice but they take
the decision and they don't need to
stick to the advice Paul gives there are
situations in which patients say if you
say I'll do it in four months they say
no I want to do it in three and this is
what I mean when a patients and a doctor
are discussing tapering and they both
don't know if three months is the right
period or four months is the right
period or five months is the right
period then all these different choices
can be right choices perhaps not we
don't
know and then I think that the patient
should be the person who can take this
decision it's his or her life and as
long as you follow the tapering while
you are tapering carefully and you have
the possibility to do something once you
get
complaints then I think this is fine
because we cannot predict how things
will be going I mean tapering is a
process where you have to decide during
the tapering process it's not like
looking in a guideline and saying oh
this patient is that old as this and
that so that's the period here she to T
we simply cannot do that there it's
process and and there's one other thing
when we are talking about
rights uh it's a fundamental right of
patient at least in the Netherlands if a
patient says I want to stop my
medication then there can be a situation
where a doctor says no you cannot do
this but if a patient decides it's the
patient
choice so but that that's a different
matter I think in most cases patients
and doctors both have common interest to
come to a shared decision that's my no
point and whether this is
supported or shared I don't know
precisely the difference but for me
that's not the most important point I
hope this is uh this is an answer that
will be helpful for
you Peter if you come from the human
rights um discussion um then beatris um
refers to the right on bodily integrity
and it's a human right which is not
dividable so um there cannot be a share
decision because you cannot share share
human rights um this is the point of
course um um um your explanation makes
sense too that um in a discussion um
there should be um a joint um decision
but finally from a human rights
perspective it's the patient who has a
final decision but um
this topic about human rights um um I
will speak in two hours about it at six
o'clock and I ask you not to have this
discussion now because I also refer to
the human rights um convention and about
the newest um ex declaration from wh who
strengthen the human
rights yeah but um both you both are
right um
when when I made with Greg who is now
there that this book um with draw from
prescribed um psychotropic drugs we all
the time had a discussion with the
authors who spoke about sh decision
making we all asked them um to use this
term um support a decision making to
make clear the last decision makes the
patience yeah Peter that was my point
exactly that ER from your explanation
what you were talking about was a
paradigm of a supported decision making
because last Choice was from the person
from the patient so
a and this is a paradigm of Human Rights
while a Shar decision making in the
context of power
relationship H it can involve coercion
because your psychiatrist can say h no I
I'm not agree with that there is a
paradigm of consensus that you get er
that you need to get with your
psychiatrist and maybe and he has the
power I mean he has the power on you in
many in many countries all the world
around so yeah what's that point and I
think that you are really talking about
separate decision making and in but you
were using the word shared decision
making that there is some controversy in
there yeah okay well my point is that I
want people to taper safely uh and how
you call it it's not so relevant for me
in this
uh so are there other
questions
nobody
I would like to know what backlash
and and pressure not to continue have
had if any and and Jim as
well and why you
attribute if that has happened why it's
happening from your perspective and
experience sorry what is happening if if
the profession is attempting not to let
your research and the practice of
prescribing these tapping strips first
is if I don't not know and second is why
you think it's happening
if oh this is
complicated This is complicated well one
thing is I think it will be happening
even if uh it's difficult now because
what we are doing uh whichever way you
look at it every day we show that it
works and the number of people who are
are using tapering strips in the
Netherland keep rising and I can see it
from the questions I
get which keep coming in at the daily
rates that people are recognizing these
issues and they are re using the strips
and since there are to my knowledge no
comparable
Alternatives I think it will be okay
although it is difficult and why it is
difficult that's a discussion well I
don't one to have here now that's then
we will sit here for another uh two or
three hours I think
so so I'm confident that it will be okay
in the
end but it's difficult apparently to get
new IDs uh accepted uh in this
world and it takes much longer than I
expected that I can
tell
thank you
Peter Paul I I would like to ask you
something are you okay Paul I I work
together with the German Society for
social
Psychiatry and they made a declaration
and sent them to all organizations of
doctors
psychiatrists um to prescribe toring
strips about half a year ago and I would
like to know if any orders came for
toring strips from
Germany I
receive
prescriptions from
patients in Switzerland Austria and
Germany also from
Sweden uh
Denmark uh and France we sent the
medication all over the world and and
did you receive more orders in the last
half in the last six months I I don't
have the figures uh in my head of how
many
strips we sent to
Germany
after uh you made you have given the
information to the
doctors I don't know but everything the
tapering strips uh we sent all over the
world
are increasing every
day is that an answer yes sir all
right
well this is
it
all
right no more
questions
no
okay
Ori thank you so much
Peter I will say Alejandra it's your
turn if you need me to help you with the
slides I will ask do
it and honestly I hope the momentum
catches and and we can have what we need
all of us even if it's like the glasses
exactly your prescription this is what
it works for you if it's more it's G to
even make it worse as simple as that
yeah okay
yep if that's the
case Alejandra do you need me to share
the slides oh
yes
yep not a problem I will do
it
foreign
[Music]
okay see uh yeah may I be only because
of my computer aleandra
H so you tell me this is the
one yeah it is because of the my
computer um it's gonna be like that
unless you want me to use a PDF that's
the only thing I can do um and and I
prefer share with my okay perfect my
computer is
is let's hope so yes choose to to share
the entire screen if you have the chance
and that's going to be it
is
[Music]
that
is
so good afternoon and everybody I would
like to be to begin my thank you for the
invitation to participate in this
important event from Spain I am a family
doctor in Ral area and I will share two
clinical case of Muslim immigrant from
Morocco with diagnosis of paroni
schizophrenia um the morac population
siing in Spain to today is a
900,000
morac um I did my fa Works working at
the mental health of the Moroccan
population in a rural area of Spain I
will present two clinical case analyzing
the beliefs with the mental health of
the Muslim population from the north of
Morocco the next please
the
next what
so um taking a while I I do believe that
that's a
problem I want to okay
I this Li have a a
move case one
[Music]
yes and it's failing it's not working
let me see we're going to do
like okay case one sleeping child Moran
cosmology or or paranoid
schizophrenia morak Guma who migrate
with her husband at the age of 25 to
Spain mother of three son she went to
the Health Center on multiple occasions
with complaint she denounced her husband
for gender based violence on several
occas he suffered psychological abuse
for several years during the separation
process she conduced the medical service
with the lotion idea of
pregnancy that the medical staff ruled
out through ultrasound and blue
test ER the other enrick
please the yes okay the woman claimed
that she took a diagnostic
test uh and she said is pregnant because
she she had repeated bleding and her
abdomen has begun to
grow after Consulting the hospital more
than seven time seven time about her
idea of pregnancy the doctor admitted
her to the hospital for the mentally
ills
she was the diagnosis with paranoia
schizophrenia because she thre she
thought she was
pregnant at the time of admission she
did not present
hallucination she CED with the interview
and she had not anxious s symtoms she
adapted normally to the function
function functioning of the psychiatric
Hospital accepted the rules had a good
relationship with the health staff and
another psychiatric patient and did not
alter the Sleep way
pattern for 20 years she was prescribed
intramuscular treatment of
antipsychotic oral and
Antics and she took them discontinuously
with poor therapeutic add according to
the health
staff in general doctors are any aware
of the anthropologic origin of the
psychological distress of moral
compassion
when interviewing the patient diagnosis
with paranoid schizophrenia she
cosmology of the sleep child in morum
patient the patient had scan bleding due
to a begin tumor in the uterus that
subside after
surgery the patient believed she had a
sleeping child who has not woken up for
20 years and according to her belief it
was because of her husband fright and
arguments she the the sleeping child is
a
social strategy that woman sometime use
to explain
infertility the patient has medicate for
20 years with the diagnosis of
psychological pregnancy she took the
medication erratically erratically and
when she has hospital to remove the VIN
tumor the venine
tumor their delusions disappear and the
patient receive no further treatment or
hospital admission to Psychiatric
Centers the next
please don't uh gon analyzed the concept
of violence in a graphic way to
represent the Dynamics of the generation
of violence in Social in Social
conflicts according to gton violence is
a like an iceberg so visible violence is
only a small part of the
conflict at the top of the triangle as
indivisible part of an iceberg is D is
direct violence some it not visible and
much more voluminous voluminous are
structal and
culture
violence now I I
classification the of the man Madness
From anthropologic
perspective
I
I in this in this case I change this
classification and with a circle a
circle with three parts one part social
Madness and another drug abuse Madness
and medical diagnosis
Madness social
Madness include sh possession
evil eyes conversion syndrome pyot
agitation the patient family envirment
bless the shin for the person after
abnormal
compartment medical diagnosis Madness in
this case in this
circle ER in all all the
symtoms are established slowly and
process and
progressly and the other part drug abuse
Madness Shen induction of drug use and
abuse low self L of migor
project UNF to comply with social
numbers unemploy or social
exclusion the next
please
okay
according to my perfect St I have
modified the the triangle into a circle
composed of three parts no no type of
violence another but they feed each
other and the origin can be any of
them being being V of the three type of
violence not just the direct War the
three type of vience interact and
each other so culture violence sh
possession morac social normal social
values beliefs and
exorcises the
violence include
Cal abuse py psychological abuse gender
violence self-aggression and itero
aggressiveness and the the other part of
this circle include structural
vales in this
case in my opinion uh institutional
violence is the more important psychical
contain drug containment and
incapacitation the next
please in this case I I try explain
uh the
beliefs um the
morion is um in in in this
belief we we
need study the Quran and in Surah 72 all
jein Surah 72 of the Quran is called oin
this Surah focus on the shin spirit is
spiritual veins created by Allah and
mentions their recognition of the
Prophet Muhammad and his message the
Surah highlights how some sh have sub
submitted to Allah and accept the
fight While others continue to go
asay it is a s that un underscore the
important of the
unknowledge Allah auth and following
divines yeah
guyses what say
she please the
next the
she
um they are ER they are
believes
that um they eat they drink they are
attracted by the blood and repelled by
the
salt created by the life from fire they
can be men or woman they cause
possession they can fall in love with
their poset and they can even have
child they have relation Muslim
Catholics they are free well speed
begin who go possession to
S the
next what happen to a person posit by
Ain the shin CA the possession of the
body of people when they suffer
strong emotion
frustration fear
sadness contact with blood or are victim
of Witchcraft if they have internal
conflict forced motherhood moral
submission religious
idence the next
please um I saw different SC of
possession
D culture structur violence
the Sy the symptoms can range from
Hing
aggressiveness attack and scream from
the
victim
vomiti abdominal pain in woman insomnia
headache and back
bcks poor memory is ises is speak in an
Inc
compreh
language much less obviously
such a anything from Pro H to bad
relation including
homosexual
homosexuality the
next below I will show a short video of
an exorcism and the diu
and culture violence suffered by my
patient who believes they are posed by
Spirits can
ER put the the
okay
enri can put the the video play the
video
so
um what what is the different state of
the violence culture and exor seems I I
can
so different stage diagnostic
negotiation with the shein symbolic
violence expulsion treatment and
privation so what is this diagnostic
with the
shin I have witness exing rituals The
Man start with the question to the sh
through the patient to
diagnosis identify the relation of the
spirit to choose the type of ritual as
who send
it whether it is for witchcraft or the
sh can Blade the patient for not
complying with Islamic
rules the another state is negotiation
with the Shen in this case negotiation
consist of persuading the
POS body in
that deposit complies with Islamic moral
principle if the shame resist a struggle
begins and the heler can be Sprite with
hot water
slap and the end when the
sh exposing expulsing of the body and TR
and probation in this expulsion stage
the patient may through offet and
locomotor agitation make C in the
tratment the patient agreed to comply
this moral recommendation where amulet
where different kab are not used
R
another um the next
please um and in this case case number
two mystical delusion versus Shin
possession a a 15 years old patient who
migrate with his family to a rural
area of Spain 20 years ago the youngest
of seven sister and separ eight parents
his mother consulted the doctors because
they heard him talking to himself other
time murmuring with God
gesticulation anguish and
hit psychiatric diagnosis hit him with
paranoid schizophrenia and medicate him
with oral and injectable
antipsychotics the patient refused to
drink and believes his posit by the
shein and talk to
himself put adaptation to the social
environment self absorbed Ming with
monthly outward
outbe L of medical complains and they
decide to perform an electr convulsive
therapy when the doctors prepare in in
in in the moment of preparation for EC
treatment impatient diagnosed with
schizophrenia and mystical delium and
with pharmacological therapic
F the family pH finally his family
decide to suspend to stop the therapy
and make a grate to screening and
practice
Exorcist
the next
please current currently the young man
is 30 35 years old her mother has died
he lives with one of his sister the L of
other to trat men persist because the
family believed that his posit
Bim B MRA to Morocco in search of exor
continued an admission to psychiatric
hospital without break due to L of tal
Follow by this family and
areed the
next the patient said I was admitted
with without waiting to it was more of
operation than a hospital everything was
locked everyone was absent you can
receive visitors he recalls the same day
I went in they start injecting me with
medication and nurse putting a finger in
my mouth to see if I had slowed the pill
and they had G
me they there they hold view among
several doctors they put a strap on my
hand and feet
in the question is structal violence and
pathologization why do drugs sometimes
not improve the patient clinical
symptoms
symptoms DS can be can be a useful tools
in tryment mental he uses but they are
not the only solution solution
especially when it come to Muslim
immigrants the L of cultural medors can
contribute to
misunderstanding and barri barriers in
communication between health care
professional and immigrant
patient the next
please the
relationship between mental health
and the idea that Shin can be influenced
mental health is often based on own
culture and
religious
interpretation in some situation people
make attribute
hallucination delusion aggression and
another experience of mental dis disord
to the presence of influence of
shin Mora compaion travel from Spain to
Morocco to perform an exor or other
rituals to reain their
health
finally it is essential to analyze the
mental health of the immigrant
population and in general is a holistic
way respecting people culture and ous
beliefs mental health professionals must
be sensitive to these beliefs and work
collaborative collabora
collaboratively with communities to
ensure a
comprehens and culture competent
approach and articulating
knowledge thank
you very much for your
attention thank you
aleandra
perfect but
for please just go ahead and ask
aleandra anything you you wish I will be
looking for the video of the exorcism on
the mean
time
aleandra if nobody else wants to ask
when they go to Morocco does that work
for them do they come back with the same
or you see an
improvement yes um I I I
work
I
I I'll stay with with people
during 7even years ER work in in this
area in in Spain
and and I saw a a different a different
patient with this this problem
possession Sheen is very very frequently
in this
area um and the problem is that the
[Music]
doctor don't know the problem and the
the medication is only ER the result
so I I want to explain another I want to
expain that the it's very
important new the the the problem
because
the in this case the
patient ER is very important
articulate ER the different treatment
not only um not only treatment
with ph with with pharmacology it's very
important for the patient visit the IM
man
and and begin the de or
SS I I have the video now I'm going to
share it on on the P powerpoint online I
can do it wa one second and I I hope the
the sound is also gonna be shared
yes
takee
that that is the only thing I don't know
how to do right
now
the violence um
is the IM man to the person and the IM
man to the sh because is in this case
the
patient believes in the sh
possession
In This Moment
theam ER in
intend talk with the sh and negotiation
to exp
Expo expel the sh of the
body in this case the Imam
show and if when you when
you stay here
is a difficult
moment because the patient was in a
state similar of syndrome
conversion
at this
moment the I man
pull on the
abdom a pice
of compression on the
abdomen in this case we we
saw three types of violence cultural
estral and
direct violence
violence if you stop you can the the
V
[Applause]
[Music]
e
that's s and
re
perfect you were watching the video
right I shared
properly thank you
very I'm really looking forward for
somebody to ask VRI go
ahead
I will summarize if you don't mind yes
just go ahead and in Spanish
please
person
[Music]
ER
in ER
and
inp
for
e
PR
[Music]
spee enri and yes I have been sharing
the the small transcript of what you
have been exchanging with
be the well everybody can just read it
through I do believe that this is going
to be better and I have a question
aleandra the tumor during the 20 years
she was bleeding on top of holding the
belief in the sleeping
child and there was no medical test
whatsoever on the physicality of
that W that is really ter
ER the tumor
um is um Bing
tumor
so in this case the
doct
m
yeah it was they knew and they prefer
not to take it because it was just too
common and not a
problem
okay and at the end how that got solved
at the belief the medication the the
drugging at some point it stopped how
what what happened how that came to be
Etc that is like the
resolution yes
when
an
or
no no
no
for
yeah aleandra is asking is saying that
cultural mediators are very important we
should have them that this patient for
20 years kept on believing what it was
assume was the the reasoning our kind of
medical doctors
ER use as she's believing that that she
is paranoid and schizophrenic she took
the medication she kept on believing up
to the point that she got the
intervention for the tumor out the
bleeding and also there is no no issue
no problem she didn't on her own potion
take medication anymore when nobody was
foring
her this is in this
case do you want to introduce the other
one or go ahead with the possessions
anything
else
no okay fantastic Alejandra thank you so
much thank you so much for you
and
it is something that we we just simply
don't know even Anthropologist we don't
not know how this works and it's
shameful the GS the different different
Cosmo cosmologist and asking which
religion you were from and in previous
life what is this exactly it's it's
amazing that we don't not there to Del
deep and take it seriously as it
is yeah thank you so much Alejandra
thank you thank you for you thank
you H Peter CRA do you want to just jump
in if not Alejandra I assume that it was
previous life but it's a different kind
of
being
um
gen is a being created by Allah it can
go inside the the body of a human being
it's a
spirit um the
spe
they they they have preference for
sweets but they don't not like salt so
salt is used to scare them away they as
people that holds dis belief and want to
scare them away positions the salt in a
place in the house to a
corner metal is something they don't
like
that's why the mother of the boy in the
second
example Place keys in the hands of his
son her son my apologies to let the Gin
know that she
offering a way out
all family was showing conversion
syndromes every
week
okay it was every week eight persons in
that family showing conversion symtoms
which in any case this the team
psychiatrist that was treating them
didn't know what to do with the boy or
anybody
an paralysis faal
perer Sy
what it was it's simply Mal alignment
with the context that they were
living manifested by paralysis in the
face anxiety other stuff that the
medical doctors did attempt to treat
with drugs or whichever the mechanism
that we are used to yet they didn't find
how
to and what was the resolution in this
one if the
family
conf
they they went back to Morocco they did
the
joury visit the temple sprayed and that
that help them
to to get over they had if it was
exorcism they had that kind of things we
don't know is that I Victory is a
really fascinating case if you want to
treat it like that that they they did
manage
right anyhow Alejandra it is a wonderful
Line work and hope hopefully we're going
to learn all together way more share to
me with me anything you want and I will
post it once once the recording are on
yeah okay okay I'll give you um my my
thesis
complete fantastic and on my end I don't
not have any other question I will
just let Peter and CRA go ahead thank
you so much Alejandra bye
thank you thank you for
you Peter do you need me with for the
slides or something no
should should I thank you so much yes go
ahead please sorry for the little bit of
delay oh yeah my bad yeah okay will you
announce our
topic
yes you are going to talk
about the lower level violences which is
not it is depending of your point of
view that you don't not have the
Alternatives as you I mean the patients
will not have the alternatives to just
go for the psychological treatments or
anything else this kind of we are not
talking
about big human rights violations but
this is something ongoing and it happens
to everybody it's Mass scale this is the
topic that you're going to cover if not
mistaken okay um Miss speak Greg and I
we speak will speak about um human
rights violations VI are um
misinformation about um the risk of
dependence of uh psych psychotropic
drugs and um the denial of support and
withdraw myself I'm a certified
pedagogue asso scientists and an
independent publisher in Berlin Germany
until
22 20 10 I was a longstanding board
member of the European network of EX
users and survivors of Psychiatry which
means I belong to the group of people
with lift experience I deal with the
topic of withdrawal from Psychic drugs
since more than 50 years give lectures
and training also for psych christs and
Clinics and I published books about this
topic for example coming off psychotic
drugs also in German French Greek and
Spanish it was the first book uh in the
world about successful mraw from
neuroleptics anti-depressants and other
drugs and together with my friend Greg
you see him um recently I edited the
book The draw from prescribed
psychotropic drugs
hopefully enri can enable translations
into French and
Spanish last Friday in Eric's lecture
series political abuse of Psychiatry the
former Human Rights Council special ra
danius bras spoke in his impressive
presentation about political abuse of
Psychiatry amongst other bases in the
former Soviet Union after his lecture I
have asked him whether he could see the
border between the misuse of Psychiatry
and its correct therapeutic use
admittedly a difficult question that
probably cannot be answered straight
away afterwards I
said about asking the same question
myself on Wikipedia I found a page
prodal political abuse of Psychiatry and
there the definition of Robert fanor
Robert is the chief executive of the
human rights and mental health
Federation Global initiative on
Psychiatry I cite him political abuse of
Psychiatry also commonly referred as a
punitive Psychiatry is a misuse of
Psychiatry including diagnosis detention
and treatment for purposes of
obstructing the human rights of
individuals and or groups in the societ
end of citation Greg and I are talking
today about
informal psychiatric human rights
violations for this reason I would like
to
broaden the diff
differentiate and differentiate the
understanding of political abuse of
psychiatry in this form macro and micro
political abuse of Psychiatry is the use
of psychiatric diagnosis of Detention of
cursion of administration of
psychotropic drugs and electroshocks
without informed consent or with
misinformation about treatment risks
inclusively risks of dependence on
psychotrophic drugs and witholding of
support in their withdrawal for the
purposes of obstructing the fundamental
human and civil rights of certain groups
and individuals in the society
this would by be my definition I don't
want to talk about mcro macro political
abuse others have already talked a lot
about it formal coercion is well known
informal coion is less visible has so
far be little addressed is no less
profound in its effects and is the
pervasive psychotic practice
worldwide informal coercion is
characterized between others I repeat by
withholding information about the risks
of prescribed psychotropic drugs by
concealing the risk particularly on
antidepressant and tics and by this
holding of support in their
VRA these substances have a number of
toxic occasional lifethreatening or even
fatal adverse effects whether they are
administered comp compulsorily
or with approval of the affected person
people with serious psychiatric
diagnosis and appropriate treatment that
is is administration of neuroleptics and
anti-depressants have a reduced Li life
expend dency of 20 to 25 years on
average and these substances cause
physical
dependency now I have to mention some
psychiatrists Rolf digitz is a former
director of two psychic University
Hospitals in Germany and also a former
president of the German
Society for Psychiatry and neurology he
was the first psychiatrist in Germany to
provide specific information about the
risk of drug dependence on neuroptics
and anid
depressant in
1967 he wrote about psycholeptics which
include anti-depressants and
neuroleptics iide the reduction or
discontinuation of psycholeptics lead to
considerable withdrawal symptoms which
are in no way different from the
withdrawal symptoms following the
discontinuation of alkaloids and
sleeping pills end of
citation the chemical group of alkaloids
includes for example morphine well known
for potential to build
dependency its withdrawal can also bring
major problems including life
threatening circulatory disorders with
shock
States and already in
1965 digitz had written about netics
iide we know now that it is extremely
difficult if not impossible for many of
The Chronic patients to stop neuroptics
because of the un durable withdrawal
symptoms end of
citation Gad quinda is another German
psychiatrist is a former chairman of the
task force psychop pharmacology of the
German Society for psychiat and
neurology he warned of a vicious circle
that can arise from continued neptic
drug
use not publicly but in his technical
book addressed to his colleague
erode in
2022 iite the development of super
sensitive Dominic systems illustrates
The Dilemma of antic psychotic
pharmacotherapy every treatment with
dopamine 2 receptor
antagonists these are substances
directly against the action of dopamine
2 potentially carries the risk that
super sensitivity of the target
receptors will develop
however once this has occured a vicious
circle of Torance development those
increase and further progression of the
pathophysiological process often
follows end of citation similarly in the
same year the Italian psychiatrist
javanna FAA warned in his book
discontinuing and to% medications of the
consequences of adaptive responses
responses of continued administration of
anti-depressants which involve changes
of special sub tyes of serotonine
receptors
aside the clinical events that may
follow tabing and or discontinuation of
antidepressent medication are very
variable they may AR R they may range
from no or limited withdrawal symptoms
to severe withdraw or syndroms they may
occure this in days if not hours or have
a delayed onset they may fade away or
persist for months or years accompan
accompanied by new disorders and our
greater intensity of the original
disturbance further distra and
persistent post distra disorders may be
associated with other
manifestations of Behavioral toxic
such as a loss of clinical efficacy
paradoxical effects switching to bipolar
cause resistance and
refractoriness TR firms and doctors meld
a warning of those affected and their
relatives from tolerance formation of
psychotic problems especially of
anti-depressants and
neuroptics most of the psychiatrists
deny the risk of drug dependence on and
present and tics with these arguments
with strong or how they call them discon
symptoms are only a symptom change of
the diagnosed disorder are greatly
overstated and solely signs of medical
mismanagement and due to too rapid
discontinuation now usually
mild self-limiting and only in extremely
rare cases classified as more sever are
merely reported among the lay person
theol community and the resulting
Publications are f with anecdotal
reports of bad outcomes our netive
adaptive processes as they also Ure when
discontinuing drugs prescribed in
Physical Medicine and persistent M
problems are only incidental
ones if an entity entity proc and this
conation
syndrome ures for example the dsm5 guide
book names one easy possibility of
solving the problem taking anti
pressence again this way of dealing with
theol symptoms is not new people
dependent on alcohol also alleviate
distra symptoms by continuing to reach
for the
bottom finally and this is the killing
argument
there is no graving for antidepressants
on tics but graving for a substance
would be is
indispensible condition for the ex
existence of drug
dependency okay so far the community of
psychiatrists who deny the existence of
drug dependence on netics and
anti-depressants gaming as a crucial
characteristic of dependence was
incorporated into the definition of drug
dependence in the psychic classification
systems in the interests of the
pharmaceutical
industry Court judgments in the 1980s
had led to convictions of psychiatrists
who had not warned of the risk of pensia
of
Independence the Jud Jud enforced
information about the risk of such a
drug dependence had led to a sign ific
decline in the S figures for these
substances to think that people feel a
craving for netics that means or
substances that are administered into
terrarian states to punish and torture
dissidence requires a dark
imagination and it's so absurb nobody
has ever claimed that there's a graving
on netics and ID depressants you just
you could just as easily claim that a
drug dependence only exists if the
person concerned over time crows an
elephant's drunk out of their face and
perhaps many would also fall for such a
definition if it were only spread by
people in white codes of this medical
doctor T
titles there are groups in Germany in
outside for example The International
Institute for the Stoll of psychic trugs
who publicly criticize these primitive
tactics they we are not alone in its
report to the general assembly of the
United Nations in
2015 the Human Rights Council working
group on arbitrary detention demanded
not only the immediate cessation of any
Force treatment but also non-o
psychopharmacological
assistance and in its guideline number
20 e the final demand demand was iide
assistance in withdrawing from
medications should be made available for
those who so
decide end of citation in the same year
this demand was included in the same
wording in guideline 14 the right to
Liberty and security of persons with
disabilities of the UN convention on the
rights of persons
disabilities and in October 23 last
month
2023 the World Health Health
Organization and the United Nations High
Commissioner for human rights demanded
in the protocol Mental Health Human
Rights and legislation not only a higher
standard for
free and informed consent but also a
governmental initiative to guarantee by
law support in this draw I
side legislation can require medical
staff to inform service users about
their right to discontinu treatment and
re receive support in this support
should be provided to help people safely
withdraw from treatment with
drugs end of citation we should be aware
of these important statements and call
on governments and administrations and
organizations in the psychosocial field
at all levels to implement these all to
Justified and overdue demands without
delay experience has shown that the
lobbyists of the pharmaceutical
companies and the organizations of
mainstream psychiatrists will do
everything in their power to undermine
effective measures measures against the
micropolitical abuse of
Psychiatry until this
happens the programs of supporting
withraw it's our task to do everything
in our power to pize the risks and harms
of prescribed psychotropic drugs and to
develop a system of competent support
for the self-determined withdrawal with
further training with Publications
digital as well as analog by
participating in self advocacy
organizations and organizations of
humanistic andsy Psychiatry or in
organizations that seriously want to
reform psychiatry in a direction of
human rights based
assistance of course it would even be
even better to develop a system of
Psychosocial support in which psycho
psychotropic drugs only play a support
inate Ro I mentioned some statements you
can find some of them and their sources
on the internet the address is Peter hen
lemman l
m.de d like Denmark e like England slash
ABC and you can find all of them in my
chapter for and against dependence on
antidepressants and tics who benefits in
the book withraw from prescribed
psychedelic drugs this book which I
mentioned already is about practical
withdrawal concepts for professionals
patients and
relatives greak newness will now
continue together with him I've
published the mentioned book thank you
very much for attention Greg now it's
your
turn
uh can you hear me now
yes okay well thank you Peter wonderful
as
ever
um I shall say a very small a little bit
about me not very much um the first
thing to say is uh you can find if you
just Google my name uh
you will discover all the books I've
published all the activities I've done
etc
etc I don't just publish psychology and
critical psychology books I've written
novels I've written children's
books um and all of those are on you'll
find them on Google I've been editor of
this the Journal of critical psychology
counseling and
Psychotherapy uh for 35 years so I'm
getting quite old and
tired
and I I I guess
the the the main kind of brief of the
journal is to critique all the claims
that Psychotherapy psychology and
Psychiatry
make and that's very easy to do because
so many of the claims are simply claims
they're they're not based on on real
entities so for example the ID the ego
and the super ego they don't exist
they're just
names um schizophrenia doesn't exist
Behavior exists conduct exists but
schizophrenia there is
absolutely uh no construct validity or
reliability for for that particular
construct it's just a word
and JC
PCP says that kind of thing a
lot um I'm going to critique a little
bit our own
book because I spend my life critiquing
things so this is the book that Peter
mentioned withdrawal from prescribed
psychotropic drugs I would recommend it
it means that I can eat dinner because I
shall make a great deal of money I don't
think I will
however what I'm going to talk about are
the there are many many suggestions in
this
book for how to safely withdraw from
psychotropic
drugs uh I'm going to talk about several
things uh that make that make that very
difficult so for
example the networks that that this book
suggests networks that include uh
compassionate psychiatrists good do good
General
Practitioners uh kind relatives
friends many of these networks simply
don't
exist if they existed people wouldn't
get into trouble in the first place so
that's one problem a lot of networks
aren't
available another problem is that D
prescribers people who systematically
reduce the dose of the
drug they're also very
unusual what tends to happen as Peter
mentioned is that if someone is
experiencing withdrawal effects what
will happen is they will increase the
dose not decrease the
do there's also a simple problem of the
sheer volume of work for the staff
involved so Junior Doctors Care staff
they have an enormous amount to do and
not very much time to do
it because of that it becomes much
easier to Simply simply give somebody a
tranquilizing drug and although we call
them antipsychotics they're not antis
psychotics they're just
tranquilizers it is just easier to give
someone a tranquilizing drug because if
that person is doing something very
difficult in a care home then and there
aren't many staff
then for the staff it is easier to give
the drug if it is a junior doctor who
goes out into the middle of nowhere goes
out into the I live in a very country
country a rural place and if there were
a junior
doctor